HTML <script> type=importmap prep (#22300)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/element/script/type/importmap/index.md

This allows different versions of the module to be used depending on what code is doing the importing.

For example, the map below will only use the scoped map if the loading module has a URL that includes the path: "/modules/customshapes/".

```html
<script type="importmap">
{
  "imports": {
    "square": "./module/shapes/square.js",
  },
  "scopes": {
    "/modules/customshapes/": {
      "square": "https://example.com/modules/shapes/square.js"
    }
  }
}
</script>
```
If multiple scopes match the referrer URL, then the most specific scope path is used (the scope key name with the longest name).
The browser falls back to the next most specific scoped path if there is no matching specifier, and so on, eventually falling back to the module specifier map in the `imports` key.

## Import map JSON representation

The following is a "formal" definition of the import map JSON representation.

The import map must be a valid JSON object that can define at most two optional keys: `imports` and `scopes`. Each key's value must be an object, which may be empty.

- `imports` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : The value is a "module specifier map", which provides the mappings between module specifier text that might appear in an `import` statement or `import()` operator, and the text that will replace it when the specifier is resolved.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : The value is a [module specifier map(#module_specifier_map), which provides the mappings between module specifier text that might appear in an `import` statement or `import()` operator, and the text that will replace it when the specifier is resolved.
```

Only the first import map in the document with an inline definition is processed; any additional import maps and external import maps are ignored.
An [`error` event](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/error_event) is fired at script elements with `type="importmap"` that are not processed (are ignored).

### Exceptions

- `TypeError`
  - : The import map definition is not a JSON object, the `importmap` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object, or the `scopes` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object.

Browsers generate console warnings for other cases where the import map JSON does not conform to the [import map](#import_map_json_representation) schema.

## Description

When importing a [JavaScript module](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules), both the [`import` statement](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) and [`import()` operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import) have a "module specifier" that indicates the module to be imported.
A browser must be able to resolve this specifier to an absolute URL in order to import the module.

> For example, the following statements import elements from the module specifier "./modules/shapes/square.js", which is a path relative to the base URL of the document, and the module specifier "https://example.com/shapes/circle.js", which is an absolute URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following statements import elements from the module specifier `"./modules/shapes/square.js"`, which is a path relative to the base URL of the document, and the module specifier `"https://example.com/shapes/circle.js"`, which is an absolute URL.
```

The JSON object must conform to the [Import map JSON representation format](#import_map_json_representation).

Note that the import map applies only to module specifiers in the [`import` statement](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) or [`import()` operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import); it does not apply to the path specified in the `src` attribute of a `<script>` element.

For more information, see the [Importing modules using import maps](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules#importing_modules_using_import_maps) section in the JavaScript modules guide.

## Syntax

```html
<script type="importmap">
  // JSON object defining import
</script>
```

The `src`, `async`, `nomodule`, `defer`, `crossorigin`, `integrity`, and `referrerpolicy` attributes must not be specified.

Only the first import map in the document with an inline definition is processed; any additional import maps and external import maps are ignored.
An [`error` event](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/error_event) is fired at script elements with `type="importmap"` that are not processed (are ignored).

> ### Exceptions
> 
> - `TypeError`
>   - : The import map definition is not a JSON object, the `importmap` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object, or the `scopes` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object.
> 
> ### Warnings
> 
> Browsers generate console warnings for cases where invalid JSON is processed:
> 
> - Top level keys other than `imports` or `scopes`.
> - Module specifier maps where a key has a trailing backslash, but the corresponding value does not.
> - Empty module specifier keys.
> - Addresses that are not strings, or which cannot be resolved to an address.
> - Addresses that are prefixes that cannot be resolved to an absolute address.

Author: ```suggestion
### Exceptions

- `TypeError`
  - : The import map definition is not a JSON object, the `importmap` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object, or the `scopes` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object.

Browsers generate console warnings for other cases where the import map JSON does not conform to the [import map](#import_map_json_representation) schema.
```

```

### Mapping path prefixes

A module specifier map key can also be used to remap a path prefix in a module specifier.
Note that in this case the property and mapped path must both have a trailing forward slash (`/`).

```html
<script type="importmap">
{
  "imports": {
    "shapes/": "./module/shapes/",
    "othershapes/": "https://example.com/modules/shapes/"
  }
}
</script>
```

We could then import a circle module as shown.

```js
import { name as squareName, draw } from "shapes/circle.js";
```

### Paths in the module specifier map key

The module specifier does not have to be a bare module.
It can also be a URL path, an absolute URL, or a relative URL path that starts with `/`, `./`, or `../`.

```json
{
  "imports": {
    "modules/shapes/": "./module/src/shapes/",
    "modules/square": "./module/src/other/shapes/square.js",
    "https://example.com/modules/square.js": "./module/src/other/shapes/square.js",
    "../modules/shapes/": "/modules/shapes/",
  }
}
```

If there are several module specifier keys in the module specifier map that might match, then the most specific key will be selected (i.e. the one with the longer path/value).

> Note that a module specifier like `"./foo/../js/app.js` would match with the module specifier key `./js/app.js`, even though the key text is not exactly the same as the module specifier text. This is because the relative path in the module specifier (`"./foo/../js/app.js`) is resolved to `./js/app.js` before comparing with the import map.

Author: @wbamberg This is the paragraph that replaces the bits you commented on in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/22300/files#r1044974265 and https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/22300/files#r1044969105.

It gets rid of the awkward terminology "post canononicalization". 

I am no longer sure what my original concern with the wording was.

---
title: '<script type="importmap">'
slug: Web/HTML/Element/script/type/importmap
tags:
  - Reference
  - Element
  - JSON
  - Reference
  - Element
  - Attribute
  - Attribute value
  - Script
browser-compat: html.elements.script.type.importmap
---

{{HTMLSidebar}}

The **`importmap`** value of the [`type`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script/type) attribute of the [`<script>` element](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script) indicates that the body of the element contains an import map.

An import map is a JSON object that allows developers to control how the browser resolves module specifiers when importing [JavaScript modules](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules).

> It provides a mapping between text that the developer wants to use in a module specifier in the [`import` statement](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) or [`import()` operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import), and corresponding values that will replace the text when the specifier is resolved into an absolute URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides a mapping between the text used as the module specifier in an [`import` statement](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) or [`import()` operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import), and the corresponding value that will replace the text when resolving the specifier.
```

The JSON object must conform to the [Import map JSON representation format](#import_map_json_representation).

Note that the import map applies only to module specifiers in the [`import` statement](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) or [`import()` operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import); it does not apply to the path specified in the `src` attribute of a `<script>` element.

> For more information see the guide: [JavaScript modules > Importing modules using import maps](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules#importing_modules_using_import_maps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [Importing modules using import maps](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules#importing_modules_using_import_maps) section in the JavaScript modules guide.
```

## Syntax

```html
<script type="importmap">
  // JSON object defining import
</script>
```

The `src`, `async`, `nomodule`, `defer`, `crossorigin`, `integrity`, and `referrerpolicy` attributes must not be specified.

> Only the first import map in the document with an inline definition is processed; any additional import maps and external import maps are ignored.

Reviewer: FWIW, the "external import maps" looks slightly redundant: they are just `<script>` with `src`, which is described in the previous point.

Author: It is, but I'm OK with this. I wanted to make it clear what would happen if you did any of the specific "bad things" so they are in this line together.

An [`error` event](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/error_event) is fired at script elements with `type="importmap"` that are not processed (are ignored).

### Exceptions

- `TypeError`
  - : The import map definition is not a JSON object, the `importmap` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object, or the `scopes` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object.

### Warnings

Browsers generate console warnings for cases where invalid JSON is processed:

- Top level keys other than `imports` or `scopes`.
- Module specifier maps where a key has a trailing backslash, but the corresponding value does not.
- Empty module specifier keys.
- Addresses that are not strings, or which cannot be resolved to an address.

> - Addresses that are prefixes that cannot be resolved to an absolute address.

Reviewer: Are the "addresses" here referring to the key or value? The idea of "address" also doesn't sound familiar in JS modules.

Author: The value. Essentially it is saying the value must be a string, and that you have to resolve be able to resolve it to a URL for a module or a valid URL prefix (i.e. most of a URL, but not necessarily the final module name).

```suggestion
- Module specifier values that are not strings, or that cannot be resolved to an absolute URL.
- Module specifier values that are prefixes that cannot be resolved to a URL.
```

> - Addresses that are prefixes that cannot be resolved to an absolute address.

Reviewer: These points are all brought up again in the "module specifier map" definition, just in the negated form. Not sure if that's necessary, or if we should just say `where JSON that does not conform to the [module specifier map]() schema is processed`

Author: Correct. I wasn't sure because 
1. some thing raise exceptions (invalid JSON) while others are warnings - invalid keys, values.
2. I wasn't sure the division would be so clear
3. I wanted to have a section near exceptions. I've reconsidered.

## Description

When importing a [JavaScript module](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules), both the [`import` statement](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) and [`import()` operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import) have a "module specifier" that indicates the module to be imported.

> A browser must be able to resolve this specifier to an absolute URL in order to be able to import the module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A browser must be able to resolve this specifier to an absolute URL in order to import the module.
```

For example, the following statements import elements from the module specifier "./modules/shapes/square.js", which is a path relative to the base URL of the document, and the module specifier "https://example.com/shapes/circle.js", which is an absolute URL.

```js
import { name as squareName, draw } from "./modules/shapes/square.js";
import { name as circleName } from "https://example.com/shapes/circle.js";
```

> Import maps allow developers to specify (almost) any text they want in the module specifier; the map provides a corresponding value that will replace the text when the address of the module is resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Import maps allow developers to specify (almost) any text they want in the module specifier; the map provides a corresponding value that will replace the text when the module specifier is resolved.
```

### Bare modules

The import map below defines an `imports` key that has a "module specifier map" with properties `square` and `circle`.

```html
<script type="importmap">
{
  "imports": {
    "square": "./module/shapes/square.js",

>     "circle": "https://example.com/shapes/circle.js",

Reviewer: Didn't try but can you use trailing commas?

Author: Probably not - I think JSON requires they not exist, and the spec for this feature says "valid json".

```suggestion
    "circle": "https://example.com/shapes/circle.js"
```

  }
}
</script>
```

With this import map we can import the same modules as above, but using "bare modules" in our module specifiers:

```js
import { name as squareName, draw } from "square";
import { name as circleName } from "circle";
```

### Mapping path prefixes

A module specifier map key can also be used to remap a path prefix in a module specifier.
Note that in this case the property and mapped path must both have a trailing forward slash (`/`).

```html
<script type="importmap">
{
  "imports": {
    "shapes/": "./module/shapes/",
    "othershapes/": "https://example.com/modules/shapes/"
  }
}
</script>
```

We could then import a circle module as shown.

```js
import { name as squareName, draw } from "shapes/circle.js";
```

### Paths in the module specifier map key

> The module specifier does not have to be a bare module.

Reviewer: Would be good to define "bare module". The definition would be tricky to get right, though.

Author: Yes, how about this: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/22300/files#r1046446905 (see below)

> The module specifier does not have to be a bare module.
> It can also be a URL path, an absolute URL, or a relative URL path that starts with `/`, `./`, or `../`.

Author: ```suggestion
Module specifier keys do not have to be single word names ("bare names").
They can also contain or end with path separators, or be absolute URLs, or be relative URL paths that start with `/`, `./`, or `../`.
```

```json
{
  "imports": {
    "modules/shapes/": "./module/src/shapes/",
    "modules/square": "./module/src/other/shapes/square.js",
    "https://example.com/modules/square.js": "./module/src/other/shapes/square.js",
    "../modules/shapes/": "/modules/shapes/",
  }
}
```

If there are several module specifier keys in a module specifier map that might match, then the most specific key will be selected (i.e. the one with the longer path/value).

> Note that a module specifier of `./foo/../js/app.js` would be resolved to `./js/app.js` before matching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A module specifier of `./foo/../js/app.js` would be resolved to `./js/app.js` before matching.
```

This means that a module specifier key of `./js/app.js` would match the module specifier even though they are not exactly the same.

### Scoped module specifier maps

You can use the `scopes` key to provide mappings that are only used if the script importing the module contains a particular URL path.
If the URL of the loading script matches the supplied path, the mapping associated with the scope will be used.
This allows different versions of the module to be used depending on what code is doing the importing.

For example, the map below will only use the scoped map if the loading module has a URL that includes the path: "/modules/customshapes/".

```html
<script type="importmap">
{
  "imports": {
    "square": "./module/shapes/square.js",
  },
  "scopes": {
    "/modules/customshapes/": {
      "square": "https://example.com/modules/shapes/square.js"
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

> The browser will fall back to checking the module specifier map in the `imports` key if a matching module specifier is not found in any of the matching scoped paths.

Reviewer: This seems redundant given the following paragraph?

Author: Good point.

> 
> The browser will fall back to checking the module specifier map in the `imports` key if a matching module specifier is not found in any of the matching scoped paths.
> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

> Note that if multiple scopes match the referrer URL, then the most specific scope path is used (the scope key name with the longest name).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple scopes match the referrer URL, then the most specific scope path is used (the scope key name with the longest name).
```

> The browsers will fallback to the next most specific scoped path if there is no matching specifier, and so on, with a final fallback to the module specifier map in the `imports` key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The browser falls back to the next most specific scoped path if there is no matching specifier, and so on, eventually falling back to the module specifier map in the `imports` key.
```

## Import map JSON representation

The following is a "formal" definition of the import map JSON representation.

> The import map must be a valid JSON object that can define at most two optional keys: `imports` and `scopes`, and which may be empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The import map must be a valid JSON object that can define at most two optional keys: `imports` and `scopes`. Each key's value must be an object, which may be empty.
```

- `imports` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : The value is a "module specifier map", which provides the mappings between module specifier text that might appear in an `import` statement or `import()` operator, and the text that will replace it when the modifier is resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The value is a "module specifier map", which provides the mappings between module specifier text that might appear in an `import` statement or `import()` operator, and the text that will replace it when the specifier is resolved.
```

    This is the fallback map that is searched for matching module specifiers if no `scopes` path URLs match, or if module specifier maps in matching `scopes` paths do not contain a key that matches the module specifier.

>     - `<module specifier map>`

Reviewer: This seems like format syntax notation? Maybe we can get rid of this DL since it just seems to define the "module specifier map" term given above.

Author: I definitely want this. I'll link down to it instead.

      - : A "module specifier map" is a valid JSON object where the _keys_ are text that may be present in the module specifier when importing a module, and the corresponding _values_ are the URLs or paths that will replace this text when the module specifier is resolved to an address.

>         The modifier specifier map JSON object has the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The modifier specifier map JSON object has the following requirements:
```

        - None of the keys may be empty.
        - All of the values must be strings, defining either a valid absolute URL or a valid URL string that starts with `/`, `./`, or `../`.
        - If a key ends with `/`, then the corresponding value must also end with `/`.
          A key with a trailing `/` can be used as a prefix for when mapping (or remapping) modules addresses.

>         - If multiple keys can match the module specifier, the most specific key is used (in other words a specifier "olive/branch/" would match before "olive/").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The object properties' ordering is irrelevant: if multiple keys can match the module specifier, the most specific key is used (in other words, a specifier "olive/branch/" would match before "olive/").
```

---

> title: '<script type="importmap">'

Author: @wbamberg Note, name(s) changed to match your suggestions.

slug: Web/HTML/Element/script/type/importmap
tags:
  - Reference
  - Element
  - JSON
  - Reference
  - Element
  - Attribute
  - Attribute value
  - Script
browser-compat: html.elements.script.type.importmap
---

{{HTMLSidebar}}

The **`importmap`** value of the [`type`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script/type) attribute of the [`<script>` element](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script) indicates that the body of the element contains an import map.

> An import map is a JSON object that allows developers to control what URLs are fetch when importing a [JavaScript module](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules).

Author: ```suggestion
An import map is a JSON object that allows developers to control how the browser resolves module specifiers when importing [JavaScript modules](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules).
```

### Exceptions

- `TypeError`
  - : The import map definition is not a JSON object, the `importmap` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object, or the `scopes` key is defined but its value is not a JSON object.

### Warnings

Browsers generate console warnings for cases where invalid JSON is processed:

- Top level keys other than `imports` or `scopes`,
- Module specifier maps where a key has a trailing backslash, but the corresponding value does not.
- Empty module specifier keys.
- Addresses that are not strings, or which cannot be resolved to an address.
- Addresses that are prefixes that cannot be resolved to an absolute address.

## Description

When importing a JavaScript module [JavaScript module](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules), both the [`import` statement](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) and [`import()` operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import) have a "module specifier" that indicates the module to be imported.
A browser must be able to resolve this specifier to an absolute URL in order to be able to import the module.

> For example, the following statements in a module `<script>` element import elements from the module specifier "./modules/shapes/square.js", which is a path relative to the base URL of the document, and the module specifier "https://example.com/shapes/circle.js", which is an absolute path to an URL.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, the following statements import elements from the module specifier "./modules/shapes/square.js", which is a path relative to the base URL of the document, and the module specifier "https://example.com/shapes/circle.js", which is an absolute URL.
```

```

With this import map we can import the same modules as above, but using "bare modules" in our module specifiers:

```js
import { name as squareName, draw } from "square";
import { name as circleName } from "circle";
```

### Mapping path prefixes

A module specifier map key can also be used to remap a path prefix in a module specifier.
Note that in this case the property and mapped path must both have a trailing forward slash (`/`).

```html
<script type="importmap">
{
  "imports": {
    "shapes/": "./module/shapes/",
    "othershapes/": "https://example.com/modules/shapes/"
  }
}
</script>
```

We could then import a circle module as shown.

```js
import { name as squareName, draw } from "shapes/circle.js";
```

### Paths in the module specifier map key

The module specifier does not have to be a bare module.
It can also be an URL path, an URL, or a relative URL path that starts with `/`, `./`, or `../`.

```json
{
  "imports": {
    "modules/shapes/": "./module/src/shapes/",
    "modules/square": "./module/src/other/shapes/square.js",
    "https://example.com/modules/square.js": "./module/src/other/shapes/square.js",
    "../modules/shapes/": "/modules/shapes/",
  }
}
```

> <!-- 

Author: This comes from the spec example here: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#example-import-map-url-like-specifier

I couldn't quite get my head around it. I think it means "if you have `import "./foo/../js/app.mjs"` then the modifier gets resolved first - so this becomes `import "./js/app.mjs"` and will therefore match a specifier like `./js/app.mjs`.
But then there was some discussion that it might also match something prefixed with `../`. 
Upshot, I am not sure how necessary it is to say this, or follow it up?

    - `<module specifier map>`
      - : A "module specifier map" is a valid JSON object where the _keys_ are text that may be present in the module specifier when importing a module, and the corresponding _values> are the URLs or paths that will replace this text when the module specifier is resolved to an address.

        The modifier specifier map JSON object has the following properties:

        - None of the keys may be empty.
        - All of the values must be strings, defining either a valid absolute URL or a valid URL string that starts with `/`, `./`, or `../`.
        - If a key ends with `/`, then the corresponding value must also end with `/`.
          A key with a trailing `/` can be used as a prefix for when mapping (or remapping) modules addresses.
        - If multiple keys can match the module specifier, the most specific key is used (in other words a specifier "olive/branch/" would match before "olive/").

- `scopes` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : Scopes define path-specific [module specifier maps](#module_specifier_map), allowing the map that is used to depend on the path of the code importing the module.

Author: Not sure, but I like your phrasing better.
